# Writing an Interpreter in Go

Welcome to my implementation of *Writing an Interpreter in Go* by Thorsten Ball. This project focuses on building a simple interpreter for the Monkey Programming language using Go.

Go read the [book](https://interpreterbook.com/). It's incredible!

## Overview

This repository contains my code and notes as I work through the book. I’m covering key concepts like:

- **Parsing**: Converting source code into a format that can be processed.
- **Abstract Syntax Trees (AST)**: Structuring the code in a tree format.
- **Evaluation**: Running the code represented by the AST.

## Try it out! 

Follow the instructions to try and play the interpreter. Check out the Monkey Language [syntax](https://monkeylang.org/)!

### Lexer

Within the `interpreter/lexer/src/monkey` directory, run:

```bash
$ go run main.go
```

This will start the REPL that showcases Monkey Language lexer. Here, the lexer reads through the input string and breaks it down into individual tokens—keywords, operators, and identifiers—that form the building blocks of the language. Each token is displayed as you type, showing how the lexer interprets each part of your input.

Example:
```bash
>> let x = 10;
{Type:LET Literal:let}
{Type:IDENT Literal:x}
{Type:= Literal:=}
{Type:INT Literal:10}
{Type:; Literal:;}
```

### Parser

Within the `interpreter/parser/src/monkey` directory, run:

```bash
$ go run main.go
```

This will start the REPL that showcases the Monkey Language parser, which takes the tokens generated by the lexer and builds an Abstract Syntax Tree (AST). The parser handles operator precedence and displays the structure of expressions with brackets to clarify how the expressions are grouped. 

Examples:

```bash
>> let x = 3 + 5 + 5 / 3;
let x = ((3 + 5) + (5 / 3));
>>
```

```bash
>> let result = 5 + 10 * 2 / 3 - 1 + 8;
let result = (((5 + (10 * 2)) / (3 - 1)) + 8);
>>
```

```bash
>> let result = add(2, 3 * 5, -10);
let result = add(2, (3 * 5), (-10));
```

The output shows how the parser respects operator precedence, grouping arithmetic operations, prefix expressions and function calls.

This is thanks to the AST the parser builds.  


> [!NOTE]  
> Statements in Monkey Language end with a SEMICOLON (`;`), so the input expects you to provide one to end the input. To quit, hit `CTRL-C`.

### Code Execution

Coming Soon!

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
